README.md, before:

# Project Bumblebee #



## Background ##

This project creates a set of Eurorack compatible modules to integrate with the current setup. We focus on sequencing and logic to create a full instrument. This came about from frustration with a hybrid setup using Logic Pro to sequence or VCV rack which were too fiddly and ephemeral to set up. The decision was made to create a full sequencing and voicing setup in hardware, rather than jumping back and forth in an unsatisfactory way.

**Primary Equipment**

This is what the modules we create will be primarily used with.

* Behringer 2600 (Grey Meanie)
* Behringer Proton

**Secondary Equipment**

* Thomann the t.mix 16 channel Mixer. Effects sends go to Logic Pro (via an interface)
* iMac with Logic Pro and a USB hub connected to all external instruments for USB midi
* Korg Modwave mk1


## Project Goals


1. Create a set of Eurorack modules to act as a Eurorack brain to integrate with the current setup to create a complete sequenced instrument.
2. Prioritize voltage interaction, routing, and modulation over stored patterns, song modes, or DAW-style sequencing.
3. Learn and implement basic electronics
4. Learn and implement the Raspberry Pi Pico where appropriate
5. Minimise costs to a reasonable level

**Non-goals**

The project will not:

1. Include effects, unless explicitly specified
2. Build menu diving or complex interfaces.
3. Use stored patterns, song modes, or DAW-style sequencing.

## Safety & Testing Protocols

**CRITICAL**: Every new module must be rigorously tested in isolation before being connected to the primary or secondary equipment.

1.  **Smoke Test**: Check for shorts on power rails using a multimeter before powering on.
2.  **Voltage Verification**: Measure all outputs with a multimeter/oscilloscope to ensure they do not exceed safe Eurorack limits.
3.  **Isolation**: Use the home-made power supply for testing.
4.  **Protection Standards (Bumblebee "Prudent Choice")**:
    *   **Inputs**: **100kΩ Series Resistor** + **Schottky Diode (1N5817)** clamping to 3.3V/GND.
    *   **Outputs**: **1kΩ Series Resistor**.
    *   **Power**: **10uF Electrolytic Capacitor** on +12V/-12V (and +5V if used) rails for local bypassing.

## Technical Standards

To ensure compatibility with the Behringer 2600, Proton, and standard Eurorack gear:

*   **Signals**:
    *   **Audio**: +/- 5V (10Vpp).
    *   **CV (Bipolar)**: +/- 5V (LFOs, etc.).
    *   **CV (Unipolar)**: 0V to +10V (Envelopes) or 0V to +5V (Pitch/Digital CV).
    *   **Triggers/Gates**: 0V (OFF) to +5V (ON). *Note: The Pico requires buffering to step up 3.3V signals to 5V.*
*   **Power Connectivity**: **10-pin Eurorack power headers** ONLY.
    *   *Note*: We do not use the 5V rail from the bus board. Each module generates its own 5V/3.3V from the +12V rail if needed.
*   **HP Width**: Integers of 2HP (e.g., 4HP, 6HP, etc.) for easy fitting.

## Phase 1

The following modules are planned for Phase 1 which is the main effort. Phase 2 is a dumping ground for future ideas that may never be built.

1.  Passive Attenuator (The "Hello World" build)
2.  Power Supply (12v AC wall wart based)
3.  **Simple Euclidean Generator** (Pico-based)
4.  **Arduino Bernoulli Gate** (Arduino-based)
5.  Clock source, divider and multiplier
6.  Quantizer
7.  Sequential Switch
8.  CV Mixer
9.  Offset/Attenuverter
10. Simple 2-channel dirty delay

Casing will be entirely 3d printed.

## Tooling

*   **Schematics & PCB**: KiCad (Recommended) - It is the open-source standard for Eurorack DIY.
*   **Code**: MicroPython (via Thonny IDE).
*   **3D Design**: Onshape.
*   **Slicing/Printing**: Orca Slicer, printed on a Creality K1 Max.

## Project Structure

Each module will have its own folder. It will include:
* Requirements and description
* Build guide and BOM
* Code files as needed

## General Considerations

* Where a microcontroller is used, the Raspberry Pi Pico will be used unless there are very strong reasons not to. 
* Prefer more buttons and controls over a display, but displays may be used where useful.
* Prototype on a breadboard first to learn and understand. Final step will be to build a stripboard and full enclosures.
* The EuroPi source code is included in the reference folder. Use it for important elements like voltage management and power safety.
* Space is not at a premium - the focus is on usability and a fun experience.


## Appendix: Phase 2

(TBD)

Commit message:

Rename Clock Generator module, add build/description documentation for Dual VCA, Buffered Mult, and The Bridge modules, and update project metadata.

README.md, after:

# Project Bumblebee #



## Background ##

This project creates a set of Eurorack compatible modules to integrate with the current setup. We focus on sequencing and logic to create a full instrument. This came about from frustration with a hybrid setup using Logic Pro to sequence or VCV rack which were too fiddly and ephemeral to set up. The decision was made to create a full sequencing and voicing setup in hardware, rather than jumping back and forth in an unsatisfactory way.

**Primary Equipment**

This is what the modules we create will be primarily used with.

* Behringer 2600 (Grey Meanie)
* Behringer Proton

**Secondary Equipment**

* Thomann the t.mix 16 channel Mixer. Effects sends go to Logic Pro (via an interface)
* iMac with Logic Pro and a USB hub connected to all external instruments for USB midi
* Korg Modwave mk1


## Project Goals


1. Create a set of Eurorack modules to act as a Eurorack brain to integrate with the current setup to create a complete sequenced instrument.
2. Prioritize voltage interaction, routing, and modulation over stored patterns, song modes, or DAW-style sequencing.
3. Learn and implement basic electronics
4. Learn and implement the Raspberry Pi Pico where appropriate
5. Minimise costs to a reasonable level

**Non-goals**

The project will not:

1. Include effects, unless explicitly specified
2. Build menu diving or complex interfaces.
3. Use stored patterns, song modes, or DAW-style sequencing.

## Safety & Testing Protocols

**CRITICAL**: Every new module must be rigorously tested in isolation before being connected to the primary or secondary equipment.

1.  **Smoke Test**: Check for shorts on power rails using a multimeter before powering on.
2.  **Voltage Verification**: Measure all outputs with a multimeter/oscilloscope to ensure they do not exceed safe Eurorack limits.
3.  **Isolation**: Use the home-made power supply for testing.
4.  **Protection Standards (Bumblebee "Prudent Choice")**:
    *   **Inputs**: **100kΩ Series Resistor** + **Schottky Diode (1N5817)** clamping to 3.3V/GND.
    *   **Outputs**: **1kΩ Series Resistor**.
    *   **Power**: **10uF Electrolytic Capacitor** on +12V/-12V (and +5V if used) rails for local bypassing.

## Technical Standards

To ensure compatibility with the Behringer 2600, Proton, and standard Eurorack gear:

*   **Signals**:
    *   **Audio**: +/- 5V (10Vpp).
    *   **CV (Bipolar)**: +/- 5V (LFOs, etc.).
    *   **CV (Unipolar)**: 0V to +10V (Envelopes) or 0V to +5V (Pitch/Digital CV).
    *   **Triggers/Gates**: 0V (OFF) to +5V (ON). *Note: The Pico requires buffering to step up 3.3V signals to 5V.*
*   **Power Connectivity**: **10-pin Eurorack power headers** ONLY.
    *   *Note*: We do not use the 5V rail from the bus board. Each module generates its own 5V/3.3V from the +12V rail if needed.
*   **HP Width**: Integers of 2HP (e.g., 4HP, 6HP, etc.) for easy fitting.

## Phase 1

The following modules are planned for Phase 1 which is the main effort. Phase 2 is a dumping ground for future ideas that may never be built.

1.  Passive Attenuator (The "Hello World" build)
2.  Power Supply (12v AC wall wart based)
3.  **Simple Euclidean Generator** (Pico-based)
4.  **Arduino Bernoulli Gate** (Arduino-based)
5.  Clock Generator
6.  Quantizer
7.  Sequential Switch
8.  CV Mixer
9.  Offset/Attenuverter
10. Simple 2-channel dirty delay
11. **Dual Linear VCA**
12. **The Bridge (USB MIDI to CV)**
13. **Buffered Mult**

Casing will be entirely 3d printed.

## Tooling

*   **Schematics & PCB**: KiCad (Recommended) - It is the open-source standard for Eurorack DIY.
*   **Code**: MicroPython (via Thonny IDE).
*   **3D Design**: Onshape.
*   **Slicing/Printing**: Orca Slicer, printed on a Creality K1 Max.

## Project Structure

Each module will have its own folder. It will include:
* Requirements and description
* Build guide and BOM
* Code files as needed

## General Considerations

* Where a microcontroller is used, the Raspberry Pi Pico will be used unless there are very strong reasons not to. 
* Prefer more buttons and controls over a display, but displays may be used where useful.
* Prototype on a breadboard first to learn and understand. Final step will be to build a stripboard and full enclosures.
* The EuroPi source code is included in the reference folder. Use it for important elements like voltage management and power safety.
* Space is not at a premium - the focus is on usability and a fun experience.


## Appendix: Phase 2

(TBD)
